# Authentic Web mini-workshop series: Meeting 1 2025-03-12

[March 12, 2025](https://www.w3.org/events/meetings/ca79dd08-3124-438a-9f02-e426074b0923/)
Slideset: [Authentic Web mini-workshop: #1](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1GHnFDmS5TPrOnMINuLO-JaxWQJ9NAJzRjOB7ZV22mjY/edit)
Video record: <https://customer-0kix77mxh2zzzae0.cloudflarestream.com/bf0e0abbb9c746bc336c73932b554335/watch>

Chair: Dominique Hazael-Massieux (W3C)
Scribe: Coralie Mercier (W3C)

Present:
1. [Tzviya Siegman](mailto:tzviya@w3.org) (W3C),
2. [Dominique Hazael-Massieux](mailto:dom@w3.org), W3C
3. Coralie Mercier, W3C
4. Tantek Çelik (Mozilla, Credweb CG)
5. [Scott Yates](mailto:scott@journallist.net)(trust.txt),
6. Martin Thomson (Mozilla),
7. Leonard Rosenthol (Adobe & C2PA),
8. Anssi Kostiainen (Intel, W3C Web Machine Learning WG Chair)
9. David Karger (MIT)
10. Barrett Golding (Iffy.news)
11. Steve Cole (MAG)
12. Chris Needham (BBC, Workshop Programme Committee)
13. Vagner Diniz (NIC.br)
14. Jeffrey Yasskin (Google Chrome & TAG)
15. Phill Jones (MoreBrains.coop)
16. Connie Moon Sehat (Discourse Labs)
17. Rick Byers (Google Chrome)
18. Emily Stark (Google Chrome)
19. Reto Gmür (FactsMission)
20. Shigeya Suzuki (Keio University, Originator Profile CIP)
21. Michiko Kuriyama (Originator Profile CIP)
22. Wei Ding (Huawei Corp.)
23. Shane Greenup (rbutr)
24. Nick Doty (CDT)
25. Virginia Balseiro ([dokieli](https://dokie.li/))
26. Josh Russell (Forward Democracy)
27. Rose Newell (Independent / associated with Forward Democracy)
28. Filippo Menczer (Indiana University)
29. James Gallagher (Independent)
30. Benjamin Young (Digital Bazaar, Inc.)
31. Bumblefudge (Protocol Labs/Independent)
32. Georg Rehm, German Research Center for Artificial Intelligence (DFKI)
33. Sebastian Posth ([Liccium.com](https://liccium.com))
34. Carmen Canas (Bocoup)
35. Julie Vaccalluzzo (Capgemini)
36. Michael Golebiewski (Microsoft)
37. Chris Rusnak (Veri.FYI)
38. Annette Greiner (NERSC, Lawrence Berkeley National Lab)
39. Joe Andrieu (Legendary Requirements)
40. David Chadwick (Truetrust Ltd)
41. Naomi Yoshizawa (W3C)
42. Wendy Reid (Rakuten)
43. Sérgio Nunes (INESC TEC and University of Porto, Portugal)
44. Mike Pennisi (Bocoup)
45. Symeon Papadopoulos (CERTH)
46. Owen Ambur  [AboutThem.info](http://aboutthem.info), [StratML.us](http://stratml.us) & [ConnectedCommunity.net](http://connectedcommunity.net)
47. Tatsuya Igarashi (Sony)
48. Yasushi Minoya (Sony)
49. Piotr Zaborowski (OGC)
50. Philip Long (RHz Consulting/T3-US Chamber of Commerce Fdn/Georgetown/ASU)
51. Jennie Meier (Digital Contract Design)
52. Andrew Kaizer
53. Jan Drewniak (Wikimedia foundation)
54. Jeremy Uzan
55. Sandro Hawke
56. [François Daoust](mailto:fd@w3.org), W3C
57. Will Abramson (Legendary Requirements, DID WG)
58. Harry
59. Fil Menczer (Observatory on Social Media at Indiana University)
60. Link Meng
61. Cheryl Langdon-Orr (ICANN, Internet Australia)
62. Fabien Gandon, (Inria)
63. Reto Gmür (FactsMission)
64. Michiko Kuriyama (Originator Profile CIP / Yomiuri News)
65. Andres Rodríguez, (Instituto Tecnológico de Buenos Aires, Argentina)
 

# Mini-workshop introduction

# Review framework
<https://github.com/w3c/authentic-web-workshop/blob/main/AuthenticWebQ.md>


# Discussion

\[Dom introduces the session and logistics]

Dom: This series of meetings, organized by Tzviya and myself, hosted by the credible web CG, chaired by Scott and Sandro

… with lots of support from Chris Needham

… first meeting in a series

Dom: why are we here?

… mis-information and dis-information have reached a level on the web where they create a systemic risk

… if you can’t trust the web, people will stop publishing and getting content on the web

… one way I like to think about this is to refer to “dark web” for sites of not reputable content

… if the web as a whole goes there it’s not a productive evolution of the web

… with that motivation, the question gets: what can we do to reduce the risk to the platform?

… lots of us as lots of ideas

… at different layers

… regulatory, economic

… changes to specific websites or platforms

… at W3C we focus on understanding what part of this ecosystem can be usefully and meaningfully address by interoperable tech

… that is, specific to relevant platform

… to that end, we offer to take a very structured approach to existing and emerging technologies in the space of provenance

… to understand what they change

… one specific angle we’ll be looking at is whether browsers can play a role

… ultimately what we want to achieve is understand what standards W3C can help with

… either directly or by liaising

… what we’ll want to do is build that map

… we’re proposing a series of meetings

… traditional way for W3C is to organize 2 or 3-day meetings

… before we get there, we want to get a shared understanding of what’s on the table, what are the right questions to ask

… we haven’t quite yet reached the level where we understand enough to have a productive f2f meeting

… we have only scheduled this meeting so far

… second will be later in April

… you may subscribe to notifications on the announcements on the GH repo

- Subscribe to [GitHub notifications of Announcements for future meetings](https://github.com/w3c/authentic-web-workshop/discussions/1)

… cadence may change based on feedback; thus open-ended approach we’re taking.

Dom: what kind of tech we expect to be looking at?

… a few resources were identified in [preparatory discussions](https://github.com/w3c/strategy/issues/483):

- [C2PA](https://c2pa.org/) et al

- [Originator Profile](https://originator-profile.org/)

- [trust.txt](https://journallist.net/reference-document-for-trust-txt-specifications)

- [Chromium Reputation Provider Framework](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1wTFafdHa-o3OYCKmYzEJGROrpSoxXN6DNXPltzdiUzg/edit?tab=t.0#heading=h.40o7mijeapa7)

Dom: you may raise issues on the repo

… we’ll be asking proposals

… to build shared understanding

… so we expect some work from proposers

… but we may not be able to review all proposals

… feel free to get in touch with Tzviya or myself

\[Dom asks participants to write in the Zoom chat their name, affiliation, and a one-liner descriptions of why they’re here]

Dom: we’ll be publishing minutes in the GH repo.

Dom: today we won’t review proposals in that space, but present options and get feedback

… including different approaches we might want to take

… we’ll do this based on the work on the credible web CG

… which published a CG report in 2018

… fairly thorough review of aspects and constraints

… we’ve distilled a series of questions from the report

… the GH repo is a good place as well to provide input

\====

Tzviya: we’re open to feedback

… when you speak please introduce yourself

… we’ll be asking you what problem you’re trying to solve

… there are many problems, we understand

… we’re trying to narrow-down

… how can we approach multiple problems, detect chain of events

… please explain problems, use-cases, actors.

Tzviya: architecture

… we’ll need to hear what problems relate to architecture

… we’ll ask you to let us know about tools or software APIs

… and their roles

… and those may be multiple

… maybe you’re the content provider, or delivering it, or promoter

… maybe you’re the platform but not the source of the information

… and then there’s the platform

… which conveys the information

… we’d like to see some nuances

… please discern the roles you’re trying to deliver

Tzviya: then we’ll look at the technical approaches

… Inspection

… corroboration looks for signal interpretation

… reputation might reveal identity and provenance whether certificates are available or not

… transparency about what’s available under the hood

Tzviya: again, technical details

… may overlap with tech approach

Tzviya: UX is also important

… the user research that went into the choices is critical and we need to understand

Tzviya: Effectiveness

… what have you done? Testing etc. to make this effective

Tzviya: Since you’re bringing this to W3C, what aspects would benefit from standardization

… we need to understand your goals

Tzviya: we should all be looking at threat modelling

… the risks, unintended consequences, increasing bias, censorship?

… and what can be done to mitigate those risks

Tzviya: what do you hope for W3C to achieve?

\[recording stops]

Dom: Thanks Tzviya for the presentation

… Please raise your hand

… (in Zoom)

… we can also look at the framework

… we can take your questions

… we can take a different approach

… I do not suggest we dive into proposals as it’s for another meeting

Tzviya: I’ve received some proposals already

\====

Jeffrey Yasskin: I think we’re missing aspects about how systems will be attacked

… possible actors should be included in the framework

Dom: expected from threat modelling

Jeffrey Yasskin: it’s not listed specifically

Tantek Çelik: this group in particular needs to address more severely that others the credibility of our work itself

… I provided a couple examples of flaws, the Politician’s Syllogism and Solutions Looking For Problems (“Interested in” or “How we leverage” technology X for to solve problem Y)

… we need to be extra critical of the work and statements made

… from an attacker’s perspective, what can be leveraged?

… I already witnessed that several of the introductions listed are solutions looking for problems

… as we look for threats, they don’t have to be malevolent

… ways of critiquing our dialogue is one of them

Dom: yes, very little progress made in that space

… as you put in the chat, tech solutions are a priority

Shane Greenup: The comment I want to make

… there’s different value

… to make a big impact

… one of the things that stand out is ways to identify truth when we know for a fact that there is research showing how little people care about authenticity when they share information

… if credibility meant anything, climate change would have been tackled decades ago

… I think we need to rethink that

… one of the ways to approach credibility is through browsers @@

… essentially, how I see bringing credibility to the web

… is to connect claims

… and rely on dialectic component of the web

Dom: quick reaction

… one topic that appears

… we need to look at it again and again

… I don’t want to assume

… how much of the needle can we move?

… if the answer is none, at least it will be a useful outcome to the discussion

Leonard Rosenthol: to Shane’s point

… some people equate credibility with truth

… but we don’t associate those

… truth is a human determination

… authenticity: provide people with information they determine is credible in their venue

… you show people the same thing

… 50% will trust it but it doesn’t change its authenticity

… define credibility in the work we’re doing in this group

Virginia Balseiro: I think it’s a very interesting point of view

… lots of problems we’re trying to solve aren’t purely technical

… someone made the point that people don’t care about credibility

… I think it’s partly true and partly what’s credible is now harder to determine

… but it’s important to look at these things

… how the concept differ

… I work on Dokieli

… an editor and annotation tool, we are working on a set of features as part of a browser extension

… something to evaluate if something is credible or not

… we can offer people solutions to make the determination

… we want to learn how do people engage already with online content, how they already assess

… these are questions that we start from

… and how we can help develop some muscles

… so that people know what to pay attention to

… digital literacy

… and educational as well

… It’s very hard to conclude which credibility signals

… can for sure determine truth

… truth is a complicated term

… let’s say credible or not

… we can for sure improve the tech we have to help individuals make those assessments themselves

… user-friendly way, more accessible

Tzviya: I’d like to take us back a few steps

… W3C works on tech solution

… we have implications on social change

… everyone here probably agrees that tech is political

… technical change is the only way we can have an effect

… I completely agree with the points Virginia made

… are we equipped to assess tooling?

… I’m trying to move the conversation beyond what is truth.

James Gallagher: what can we learn from flaws built in technology?

… what is a tool my sister in high school could use?

… as a separate point, I’ve observed the absence of provenance is not necessarily a bad signal

… but discouraging @@

Connie Moon Sehat: I’d like to suggest a change to the framework

… around problem we’re solving

… as a proxy we can use the definition developed

… or ask specifically to define how credibility works

… it could be that tools proposed are solutions

… so if problem is better articulated, maybe in tandem that can help us understand if the solution actually works

Dom: thanks for feedback on the framework

… this is the kind of improvements we are looking for

Rick Byers: figuring out what the problems we need to agree on and which to compete

… I’m interested in creating the situation where users have choices

… and we create the solutions

… I didn’t see that in the framework

… which compares one against another

… we need to enable different ideas so that they’re competition

Dom: we meant that by “interoperability” but we need to make it more explicit

Nick Doty: I’m also concerned about the interoperability of tooling that could be effective here

… I think there are categorizations of tooling which can be missing from the report

… other than provenance

… a separate piece is about evaluating including reputation

… it will be useful to make sure these categories are in the framework

… and added to assessment

Dom: 5th question attempted to address this

… so useful to clarify

Phill Jones: I’m one of the founders of MoreBrains Cooperative

… working with STM publishers

… validating a research image

… so that its integrity can be assessed

… it’s a big emerging problem

… looking at the framework

… how could tech support mechanisms in place to assert trust

… for example peer review

… is being swamped by false information and data coming in the system

… how to improve the trust mechanisms that are under pressure?

Dom: good input

Wendy Reid: amazing start

… I’m excited about this framework

… +1 things said earlier re: not trying to define truth

… what we can focus on

… there is a lot of domain specific challenges

… in trade publishing, there are problems in verification

… people want to buy the right book

… the real book, not a fake one, and publishers want to keep their sales, and platforms want to sell the right content to buyers

… I’d call that out

… the tech solution may not entirely change but may be influenced by nuances between industries, use cases, and stakeholders in the supply chain

Anssi Kostiainen: I’m the web machine learning WG chair

… how much the framework is concerned with AI generated content?

… enough of the web is already AI-generated, including malicious AI-generated content

… Rick, thanks for sharing your use-case with us

… there’s an ecosystem of ad-blockers to enhance the user experience on the web, drawing parallels, e.g. detecting deepfakes with web extensions running in browsers is already possible

Dom: Thanks

… re: AI

… what is reasonably clear is that AI is likely multiplying the challenges we’re facing in that space

… because credible content multiplied compared to before

… I don’t have preset answers, we need research

Jeffrey Yasskin: looking again at the framework questions

… I think we’re missing questions around the social impact of the tools

… it’s broader than a single user

… it's worth describing the plan even before research is available

Dom: good point

… congruent with point made earlier

… makes sense

Shane Greenup: someone chatted about browser extensions

… the one we developed had a great ecosystem but consisted of people who are already skeptics

… to combat propaganda and misinformation there has to be a way to reach wider audiences

… i don’t care about a particular approach

… but there needs to be an independent solution that is plugged into the platforms

… has to be presented in a way that is not declarative

… so as to not ostracize people

… so, has to be native to the web

Dom: to rephrase, I think you’re raising the scale question to have impact

… I think we need that in the framework

… also, how to help users who are misled and want to be helped

… I think we should ask project submitters to clarify

Shane Greenup: there’s value in applying to to journalism and academia

… the Internet has changed the landscape of information

… and the ecosystem

… bias is reinforced by internet

… tech of the web has changed exposure to ideas

… there needs to be a way to counter that, pushback on those flaws

… I look at it as a population thing

Scott Yates: we’re at time

… Thank you

… once we dive into the proposal, everything will come out much stronger

… thanks for your participation today

Dom: go to the GH repo to raise proposals

… get in touch if you want to discuss anything in depth

\


Scott Yates: We invited people from IEEE over the years

… as well as the people from the “fake news” group

Tzviya: next meeting will be late April, stay tuned.

\[adjourned]

